Governance prerequisites (#235)
vegaprotocol/documentation: docs/tutorials/proposals/new-asset-proposal.md

# Propose a new asset
This page provides a tutorial for submitting a proposal for a new ERC-20 asset to be used as collateral. It describes what can be proposed, what you need to propose a new asset, and provides proposal templates that you will need to edit before submitting.

## Requirements

You will need:

- A connected [Vega wallet](/docs/tools/vega-wallet/index.md), with your wallet name and public key to hand

> - A minimum of <NetworkParameter frontMatter={frontMatter} param="governance.proposal.asset.minProposerBalance" hideName={true} suffix="token"/> associated with that public key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A minimum of whichever is larger, associated with that public key: <NetworkParameter frontMatter={frontMatter} param="governance.proposal.asset.minProposerBalance" hideName={true} suffix="tokens"/> or <NetworkParameter frontMatter={frontMatter} param="spam.protection.proposal.min.tokens" hideName={true} suffix="tokens"/>
```

Validation happens according to the `validationTimestamp` parameter. In most situations, this should be early on in the voting period so that any validation errors are caught before token holders start voting. However you could push the validation later if the contract is not yet deployed.

## Templates and submitting
In the tabs below you'll see an annotated example, which describes what each field is for, a JSON example that can be used to submit on the token dApp, and command line examples for different operating systems. **You'll need to replace the example data with the relevant details before submitting.**

<Tabs groupId="newAssetProposal">
  <TabItem value="annotated" label="Annotated example">
    <NewAssetAnnotated />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="json" label="Token dApp (JSON)">
		<JSONInstructions />
		<NewAssetJSON />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="cmd" label="Command line (Linux / OSX)">
		<TerminalInstructions />
		<NewAssetCMD />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="win" label="Command line (Windows)">
		<TerminalInstructions />
		<NewAssetWin />
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Voting and enactment

> All proposals are voted on by the community. Community members need a minimum of <NetworkParameter frontMatter={frontMatter} param="governance.proposal.asset.minVoterBalance" suffix="tokens" hideName={true} /> to vote. Your proposal will need [participation](../../concepts/vega-protocol#how-the-outcome-is-calculated) of <NetworkParameter frontMatter={frontMatter} param="governance.proposal.asset.requiredParticipation" formatter="percent" hideName={true} /> and a majority of <NetworkParameter frontMatter={frontMatter} param="governance.proposal.asset.requiredMajority" formatter="percent" hideName={true} />, so having community support is essential. If successful, the proposal will be enacted at the time you specify in the `enactmentTimestamp` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All proposals are voted on by the community. To vote, community members need, at a minimum, the larger of  <NetworkParameter frontMatter={frontMatter} param="governance.proposal.asset.minVoterBalance" suffix="tokens" hideName={true} /> or <NetworkParameter frontMatter={frontMatter} param="spam.protection.voting.min.tokens" suffix="tokens" hideName={true} associated with their Vega key. 

Your proposal will need [participation](../../concepts/vega-protocol#how-the-outcome-is-calculated) of <NetworkParameter frontMatter={frontMatter} param="governance.proposal.asset.requiredParticipation" formatter="percent" hideName={true} /> and a majority of <NetworkParameter frontMatter={frontMatter} param="governance.proposal.asset.requiredMajority" formatter="percent" hideName={true} />, so having community support is essential. If successful, the proposal will be enacted at the time you specify in the `enactmentTimestamp` field.
```
